Crestor belongs to a a group of drugs called HMG CoA reductase inhibitors, or
"statins." Rosuvastatin is used together with diet to lower blood levels of
"bad" cholesterol (low-density lipoprotein, or LDL), to increase levels of
"good" cholesterol (high-density lipoprotein, or HDL), and to lower
triglycerides (a type of fat in the blood).

Crestor is used in adults and children who are at least 8 years old to lower
cholesterol and triglycerides in the blood.

Crestor is used in adults to slow the progression of atherosclerosis (a build-
up of plaque in blood vessels that can block blood flow).

Crestor is used to lower the risk of stroke, heart attack, and certain other
heart complications in men 50 years and older and women 60 years and older who
have coronary heart disease or other risk factors.

Crestor is also used to treat hereditary forms of high cholesterol, including
the heterozygous type (inherited from one parent) and the homozygous type
(inherited from both parents). For the heterozygous type, Crestor can be used
in children who are at least 8 years old. For the homozygous type, this
medicine can be used in children as young as 7 years old.





Get emergency medical help if you have any **signs of an allergic reaction to
Crestor:** hives; difficult breathing; swelling of your face, lips, tongue, or
throat.

Call your doctor at once if you have:

  * unexplained muscle pain, tenderness, or weakness;

  * muscle weakness in your hips, shoulders, neck, and back;

  * trouble lifting your arms, trouble climbing or standing;

  * confusion, memory problems; or

  * **liver problems** \- upper stomach pain, tiredness, loss of appetite, dark urine, jaundice (yellowing of the skin or eyes).

Common side effects may include:

  * headache;

  * weakness;

  * muscle aches; or

  * nausea, stomach pain.

This is not a complete list of side effects and others may occur. Call your
doctor for medical advice about side effects. You may report side effects to
FDA at 1-800-FDA-1088.

Crestor side effects (more detail)



